burnout is caused by workplace stuff so
it's something it's these symptoms
that's or look like depression but have
a fundamental root in workplace related
things and like workplace interactions
so the first thing i want to talk about
today is um we someone cross-posted this
from the anti-work uh
subreddit and what they kind of posted
is this tweet which is a truly dystopian
part of all of this are the chipper
email reminders from schools and
workplaces reminding people to tend to
their mental health while doing
absolutely nothing to make that possible
so i think this tweet is actually like
really important
because it speaks to a fundamental
problem and i think one of the biggest
scams
that's currently being perpetrated
against people
about kind of burnout and mental
wellness
so what i mean by that is like there's
something going on right now which is
like very subtle and is actually like
society-wide oh
which i think is a real problem okay
um
and the the biggest problem right now
that i think is happening with burnout
is that people are are placing the
responsibility of burnout
on the individual so this is something
that's like very subtle but like for
example the world health organization
has uh recently you know they like
coined like this kind of diagnosis
that's burnout
so a lot of people are sort of talking
about burnout and if you really think
about it there's like there's a huge
problem because burnout affects the
individual
right so the way that we talk about this
problem is very individual oriented so
we say that you know all of these like
issues of workplace mental health like
the mental health is like within the
person burnout happens to a person
and so there's a subtle problem that's
going on there's a very subtle scam
going on which is that
once you kind of label it as an
individual problem you say oh you're
burnt out like go get a diagnosis from a
psychiatrist and then you work on it as
a person as an individual
what's happening is there's a very
subtle
drastic and catastrophic
shift of responsibility from the
workplace
to the individual and i think this is
incredibly damaging so this has happened
before
so if you look at addiction this is
another big area where like this kind of
thing happened
so 40 years ago if you were addicted to
cigarettes like what was the solution to
you being addicted to cigarettes it was
a personal solution right it was like go
to a doctor and then like doctors will
prescribe medications to help you get
off of cigarettes like stuff like
chantix and things like that it's like
here use this nicorette replacement gum
like use this gum like basically the
problem of you being addicted to
something is an individual problem we
also see this with opiate usage right
where like there's a diagnosis of opiate
use disorder so people get addicted to
opiates and then the burden of fixing
that problem falls to the individual
i think the the big catastrophic mistake
that happened in all of these situations
is that there was a very real
ignorance or avoidance of a systemic
responsibility so we now knew know
through like various investigations and
like even lawsuits and stuff that like
the opioid crisis in the united states
is is not
there because of a failing of like
millions of individuals to get off of
opiates right the opioid crisis in this
country was created by a systemic change
where like doctors were over prescribing
opiates
by an industry that was sort of like
saying hey this isn't a problem this is
really great everyone should use this
okay
and so i think that what the same exact
thing is actually happening with like
workplace mental health and burnout
where what's happening is we're saying
like oh people are burnt out so like
companies are going to their hr
departments and they're saying like hey
employees are worrying about
burnout like people are really concerned
about it like what should we do and then
the hr folks like in a sense they don't
really know better right
so they're doing is like okay so like
let's give people access to a meditation
app let's send them
daily email reminders to tell them to
take care of their mental health
but if you look at all of those
solutions the burden of responsibility
is being placed on the individual and
what's kind of interesting is by placing
the burden of responsibility on the
individual
the industry is sort of getting a pass
and this is a huge problem because the
truth of burnout and if you go back to
the original like research on burnout
was done by someone named mozlok and
what mazlak basically determined so like
quick history lesson on burnout
is mozilla said hey there's this thing
called burnout and it like causes people
to be not empathic it causes people to
lose motivation it causes people to like
you know have difficulty like doing
things and so what the psychological and
psychiatric community said when mozlok
basically coined the term burnout and
said hey there's this burnout syndrome
they said well how is this different
from depression right because in
psychiatry what we tend to do when
someone says hey i've discovered a new
thing what the automatic response is is
like
how is this thing new like because we
know about depression it sounds like
what you're describing is depression and
what mazlak defined burnout as is he
said yeah it's very similar but there's
a key difference
burnout is caused by workplace stuff so
it's something it's these symptoms
that's or look like depression but have
a fundamental root in workplace related
things and like workplace interactions
so even if you look at the world health
organization definition of burnout it
relates to workplace related stuff
and this is really really important
because there's a very subtle thing that
happens here which is that when we start
diagnosing individuals with burnout even
if it's workplace related stuff we are
still shifting the blame and the
responsibility of burnout to the
individual as opposed to the workplace
and this is something that like i've
seen time and time and time again where
when when i deal with burnout i've done
a lot of work on burnout um
what we tend to find is that like
burnout is not caused generally speaking
by individual factors it's caused by
workplace related factors so i'm going
to give you guys an example from
medicine
so doctors tend to work really really
hard right so we tend to work hard we
like study hard like we study for you
know 60 70 80 hours a week in residency
we work 60 70 80 hours a week and and
the interesting thing is that most
doctors are actually like okay with that
they're okay with doing that kind of
work
if you ask doctors why they're burnt out
it's not actually working a lot it's not
the number of hours it's the kind of
work that they're forced to do so i'll
give you guys just an example this is
something that i find incredibly
frustrating so i can work with patients
for 60 hours a day but what i absolutely
hate is arguing with insurance companies
for 10 hours a day so this is where like
if i think my patient needs a particular
medication
what i have to do is like i may
prescribe it but then like the insurance
company says we're sorry we're not going
to pay for that medication we don't
think your patient needs it instead
we're going to give them this other
medication and this is what we're
willing to pay for and so then what i
have to do is spend like an hour calling
the insurance company and they do this
on purpose by the way they don't make
the process of getting expensive
medication for their patients easy they
make it hard because they understand
that for every hour
the harder they make it for me to get
the medication for my patient the less
likely i am to actually like advocate
for more expensive medication so they
place artificial barriers that are quite
high requiring me to fill out forms
spend time on the phone talk to someone
else and justify my decision
and keep in mind this is it's not like
i'm justifying the decision to a medical
doctor right it's like someone who's got
like a you know a business degree who's
saying this is our protocol and this is
what we're going to pay for
and so that that's the kind of stuff
that burns me out so what we understand
is that like burnout is not caused by an
individual problem it's not like the
person is lazy or they're you know like
they're just not taking care of
themselves
burnout tends to be caused by people who
want to do a good job who are placed in
situations where doing a good job is
very very difficult
and so what's happening right now is
when people like when workplaces will do
stuff like okay like hey here's an email
to kind of take care of yourself here's
a subscription to a meditation app and
this is our solution right and so what
the the company then does is they like
check the box they're like okay we've
done this is our employee wellness
initiative and we've checked the box and
the cool thing about our employee
wellness initiative is that we value
wellness and we care about our employees
but don't ask us to actually change
anything at work because that's
ridiculous like it's silly right
the solution to employee wellness is on
on the burden is on the employees like
we're going to help you we're going to
be such good employers and we're going
to give you the subscription to this
meditation app so that you can meditate
in your free time and that way you'll be
less burnt out
good job right strong work
and the thing is like this is the huge
problem right because like now what
we're having is a society that is
assuming that wellness is a combination
of like meditation apps like chia seed
seed pudding and like
home delivery food services that allow
you to like cook stuff the burden of
wellness is being placed on the
individual and if in the message that we
get is it's like the workplace doesn't
need to change anything what needs to
happen is like you need to eat more chia
seed pudding you need to like do yoga
every day and you need to meditate and
like that's the solution like it's your
fault that you're burnt out because
you're not taking care of your mental
wellness well enough it's not our fault
it's an industry we're not contributing
to this it's like if you do these things
like this is the solution and this is
the biggest scam that's being
perpetrated against us right is like
this idea that like
burnout which moslak defined as a
workplace related thing that the
solution is on the side of the
individual
and this sort of makes sense in terms of
what's happening in the world because i
don't know if you guys get this but like
meditation apps are on the rise chia
seed pudding is on the rise yoga is on
the rise all of these things are far
more accessible than they've ever been
and you would think that if these things
were actually effective we would see a
decrease in the level of burnout but
what we actually see is the opposite
that burnout is getting worse despite
the wellness industry booming so like
what's the problem here the problem is
that all of the solutions that we have
to burn out are not actually targeting
the root of the problem which is a
workplace related thing
and so like this is where i know it
sounds crazy but like this is a big part
of how you successfully deal with
burnout is you have to target the
workplace related stuff
so a couple years ago i was running this
program called the smart program which
out of
so the smart program is the stress
management and resilience training
program it was it's for physicians and
it's out of this place called the benson
henry institute at harvard medical
school so i was running this program for
a couple of years it was created by a
predecessor of mine who was awesome and
brilliant and very forward thinking
and so what we did is we took 600
doctors a year and we put them through
this resilience training program
and here's what we even did it for free
so here's what we found is that when we
went to a hospital and we're like hey we
have this program for you that will like
help your you know your staff your
doctors be like less burnt out and the
the people would be like oh that's great
like can you do the program we're like
yeah we'll do the program and then
they're like okay what does it cost and
we're like it doesn't cost anything well
we're happy to do it because we're just
here to try to support like you know
resident physicians
and so they were all for it and when did
we get pushback
we got pushback when we said hey if you
guys want to do this program you have to
make it a part of your your your
resident physician's regular workday so
we're happy to do the program but for
two hours once a week
the people in the program need to be
excused from work because what everyone
what everyone wanted to do is like tack
it on to the end right they're like okay
we're gonna you're gonna work from 7 a.m
to 7 p.m because those are your regular
work hours and then we've got this
two-hour awesome wellness course at the
end of the day
that you guys can do it's free it's
going to be from 7 p.m to 9 p.m where
you can learn how to take better care of
your mental health isn't that fantastic
look at how much we're supporting
resident wellness
and so we said that here's what we found
the core finding from the program is you
have to make it a part of their job you
can't add it on it can't be optional it
has to be replacing
actual work
and so i this was something that we got
a lot of pushback on but what we
ultimately found is that like it's kind
of bizarre but like when people replaced
actual patient care or other kinds of
documentation or things like that with
this wellness program it actually
succeeded quite a bit and i know it
sounds kind of weird but the basic thing
that we discovered is that wellness is
not something that
has to be done by an employee outside of
work hours in order for like employee
wellness to actually be effective it's
something that must be taken care of as
part of their job it's not something
extra it's not something additional it's
something that has to be systemically
implemented into the job
and the smart program isn't the only
example of this so like the bizarre
thing is i've done this work with a lot
of different companies now so i've done
it like in investment banks private
equity firms tech companies you know we
do this kind of work with streamers and
stuff like that and what we've
essentially discovered is that
the industry accepting responsibility
for improving the employee work
conditions is the best solution to
burnout and a lot of people in the
industry are very concerned about this
right because they're like oh like if my
doctors are not seeing people for two
hours a day that means that we're gonna
let make less money and so like
industries tend to be very resistant to
it and the thing is they're dumb because
the truth is that when you implement
like wellness initiatives which may not
look like meditation by the way i'll
give you guys a great example of this it
actually like tends to improve like
employee happiness and it actually makes
you money so i'm gonna give you guys a
great example of this
once again from medicine okay
so
one of the things that's the most
annoying about being a doctor is that
you have to write notes and so like
writing notes used to be good like it
used to be like a useful thing that as a
doctor i want to remember things for
myself or i have colleagues who are
going to like you know be looking at my
notes because they're taking care of a
patient overnight so the purpose of a
note used to be to like transmit useful
information from like one person to
another person or even from one like to
write it down so you can remind yourself
the next day okay so this person had a
fever this day i gave him this
medication it seemed to get better okay
good to know
so over time though what's happened is
notes have become like a tool for
billing so now like we all get oriented
or we go through these seminars where
there's like some hospital administrator
that says if you add these six sentences
to your note we can bill at a higher
level and the hospital will make more
money
so now notes are becoming like a useless
pile of garbage that's used for the sake
of like billing insurance and this is
also it's mind-numbingly boring as a
physician because i have to write all
this useless crap that has nothing to do
with patient care so that i can bill at
a higher rate and i can get bonus and
the hospital can make more money
so when you talk to doctors about you
know what do they dislike about their
job what what burns them out and they'll
say things like it's like insurance and
like note writing
so then some hospitals were actually
really forward thinking and they're like
you know what we're gonna do we're gonna
hire a scribe so they actually asked the
doctors they said like what would be
useful for you and like the doctors are
like it would be great if i didn't have
to write notes so instead of what the
hospital actually did is that like like
some hospitals have done this and now
it's becoming more commonplace they
actually hire a separate person who
accompanies the doctor and they have
like a laptop they have like a little
laptop that they carry around they carry
a stool like some of them will literally
carry a stool so the doctor walks in and
then there's like the patient saying
your doctor sits there there's some
rando there with a laptop and a stool
they unfold their stool they sit down
and they start typing as the doctor is
talking
and what people have discovered is that
like having this scribe which may cost
20 bucks an hour it's a whole different
person that you have to hire and train
and stuff like that so there's an
upfront cost it actually works wonders
because what happens is that the doctor
doesn't have to spend time writing notes
anymore right so now this this like you
have this peon who's like doing all the
this like crappy note writing that
allows you to bill at a higher rate you
pay 20 bucks an hour more and the cool
wild thing is that not only is the
doctor happier because they don't have
to spend as much time writing stupid
crap they also can see more patients so
what you're actually allowing a doctor
to do is operate at what's called the
top of their license which is like
instead of seeing 10 patients and
writing notes for one hour i can see 11
patients and write notes for like 10
minutes and it's actually a win-win like
all around
and this is what i've seen time and time
and time again is that employers and
industries that sort of take the burnout
of their employees seriously and are
willing to actually implement systemic
change from a workplace environment
perspective are the ones that actually
win which is why it's so like
bizarre to me that like people are so
resistant to this that
it's kind of crazy that like
in industries right now like success
around burnout is possible you can
actually support the health and
well-being of your employees in the
workplace and like even if it negatively
impacts your bottom line like you can
absolutely do it and i would bet money
that even if you did that even if you're
seeing like some kind of upfront cost
over time you'll see like more
productivity
but it's bizarre to me that is
essentially what's going on in the world
right now is that you have like
industries and corporations that are
outsourcing their mental like the mental
health of their employees they're not
like taking any responsibility for it
and they're sort of like going to hr and
they're like hey our employees are
complaining about burnout like what
should we do
like and then the hr person is like the
hr person can't say like oh we have to
like you know let them work from home
like there's another good example where
you know covet has shown us that work
from home basically works like you don't
see a huge negative impact in
productivity and people really like it
and now what's happening is corporations
are forcing their employees to come back
in for like corporate culture it's like
what what corporate culture are you
trying to reinforce like toxicity and
like
having your employees spend two hours in
traffic every day because you want them
to sit in a cubicle and do the same work
that they can do from home like are you
trying to get 40 hours of labor out of
someone when the truth is that they
could do the same job in 30 hours and
have 10 hours off and like it won't
affect your bottom line at all
it's just stupid
like there's just so much idiocy and
it's it's a whole it's like a systemic
problem that people are thinking that
you know workplace mental health is on
the responsibility of the worker like
it's dumb
like in the original definition of
burnout like i'm serious if you go and
you look at the original definition of
burnout what separated it from
depression is that it's caused from
factors related to work
and if we want to fix this problem it's
not like increasing your meditation apps
and like giving everyone organic produce
it's actually making changes within the
workplace
and the other mind-numbing thing that
like is just crazy is that making
changes in the workplace is actually
like good for the workplace like it's
dumb that that like every organization
that i've gone to let me think about
that
yeah i think i can say every
organization every organization that
i've gone to and we've implemented like
a burnout like mental wellness kind of
plan that involves like those things
being structured into part of their job
is like it has been successful
and generally speaking i've never heard
from a company and we have like good
relations with these people right and
they usually call us back and want us to
do more and things like that we've never
heard from a company that like hey this
is actually negatively hurting our
bottom line and like we don't think that
this is a good intervention
like i've never heard that before and
it's all kinds of things from like you
know even like there was one hospital i
was working at where like we decided
that we were gonna like meditate
together every morning during rounds or
that the first 10 minutes of the day was
like everyone on the unit getting
together with all the patients and
offering like a group meditation that
patient and staff can do together and
then you start rounds 10 minutes late
but the good news is that since
everyone's like on the same like
wavelength and everyone's kind of like
calmed down and like chilled out like
even the patients are chill like the the
the staff is chill like rounds moves
faster it's not like this two and a half
hour slog where everyone's like more
efficient because they all meditated at
the beginning of rounds it's crazy
so you know i i know that like there's a
lot of stuff like the anti-work
subreddit is growing really rapidly and
like i can see why because
the simple truth of the matter is that
there's a gigantic scam that's being
perpetrated
right now
and there are all kinds of people that
are part of it including like the
medical industry because what we've
managed to do is define burnout is an
individual problem
people will say i am burnt out what
should i do about it and the truth is
that there are some things that you can
do more recent research like for example
over the last decade research shows that
burnout's actually 50 50 that half of it
seems to be workplace related stuff and
the other half is like maybe not
workplace related stuff so you know
research is still evolving
but at the end of the day i think like
the biggest issue is that we're
outsourcing we're placing the
responsibility of burnout on the
individual as opposed to the company
taking some degree of responsibility and
as long as this is going on we can have
as many meditation apps as you want we
can discover other kinds of superfoods
and super grains and super probiotic
kimchi related sodas and whatever like
you can have as much health food related
stuff as you want to but at the end of
the day until employers start accepting
responsibility that there may be part of
the reason that my employees are burnt
out has something to do with the way
that their job is structured
this problem is going to continue to get
worse
and like the employers are going to be
the ones that suffer too because like
the other stupid thing is that it's it's
really like a win-win situation it's
just like having happier
uh employees means like more productive
employees and more productive employees
means that it's like good for for
organizations
so like for those of you all that are in
situations where you know your your
workplace isn't ideal like my
condolences and be really really careful
about you know drawing the line between
what you can do and what you're
responsible for and honestly like what
needs to change at your job
and because like the truth is the truth
of the matter is that like you know you
there's no amount of like personal stuff
that you can do
to
really fix
a bad work situation
questions
yeah so people are saying like some
people gotta go right like just quit and
i think that's what we're seeing like so
in the united states there's all this
talk of a labor shortage there isn't a
labor shortage
there's like
there's like a wage shortage right
there's like a there's an abundant over
abundance of crappy jobs that people are
no longer willing to put up with
and so like this is not it's not a
problem of labor it's not like they're
like i mean i'm sure that some of it is
labor related like people you know a lot
of people died from covid a lot of
people have like you know medical
complications from kobe and stuff like
that but at the end of the day like it's
not a labor shortage it's just like
people are not willing once you figured
out like okay i can stay at home and
make 1200 bucks or i can work in a super
toxic environment and make 1600 bucks
like i'm just gonna pass on the toxic
environment because the extra 400 the
opportunity cost of that is like not
worth it
right it's like this stupid stuff that
people have at work like yeah we're not
going to give you a chair because we
don't want to make you lazy and we don't
want other people to feel like you're
lazy like what is that even based on
is there any research that shows that if
someone if you provide an employee a
chair that people purchase less stuff
like where is the stuff coming from
there's so many ideas in like corporate
industry that are not based in science
at all like it's just
you